happiness
“I had the epiphany that laughter was light, and light was laughter, and that this was the secret of the universe.”
Donna Tartt
The Goldfinch

happiness
“At any rate, that is happiness; to be dissolved into something complete and great.”
Willa Cather
My Antonia

happiness
“Happiness can be found even in the darkest of times if only someone remembers to turn on the light.”
J.K. Rowling
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban 

anger
“How often it is that the angry man rages denial of what his inner self is telling him.”
Wilkie Collins
The Woman in White

anger
“You do not know how the people of this country bear malice. It is the boast of some of them that they can keep a stone in their pocket seven years, turn it at the end of that time, keep it seven years longer, and hurl it and hit their mark ‘at last.'” 
Charlotte Bronte
Shirley

anger
“From hell’s heart I stab at thee; for hate’s sake I spit my last breath at thee.” 
Herman Melville
Moby Dick

fear
“Whenever I find myself growing grim about the mouth; whenever it is a damp, drizzly November in my soul; whenever I find myself involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses, and bringing up the rear of every funeral I meet; and especially whenever my hypos get such an upper hand of me, that it requires a strong moral principle to prevent me from deliberately stepping into the street, and methodically knocking people's hats off—then, I account it high time to get to sea as soon as I can.”
Herman Melville
Moby Dick

fear
“Vonnegut could not help looking back, despite the danger of being turned metaphorically into a pillar of salt, into an emblem of the death that comes to those who cannot let go of the past.”
Kurt Vonnegut
Slaughterhouse-Five

fear
“Faster, faster, until the thrill of speed overcomes the fear of death."
Hunter S. Thompson
Hell’s Angels

anticipation
"How wonderful it is that nobody need wait a single moment before starting to improve the world."
Anne Frank
Anne Frank's Tales from the Secret Annex: A Collection of Her Short Stories, Fables, and Lesser-Known Writings, Revised Edition

anticipation
“He ran his finger along my jawline and down my neck. "The wait will be fun, but it's not going to be easy.”
Amy Plum
Die for Me

anticipation
“Clouds out of control decoct anticipation. What use can any of us have for two moons? The miracle of order has run out and I am left in an unmiraculous city where anything may happen.”
Samuel R. Delany
Dhalgren

disgust
“I don’t let anyone touch me,” I finally said. Why not?” Why not? Because I was tired of men. Hanging in doorways, standing too close, their smell of beer or fifteen-year-old whiskey. Men who didn’t come to the emergency room with you, men who left on Christmas Eve. Men who slammed the security gates, who made you love them then changed their minds. Forests of boys, their ragged shrubs full of eyes following you, grabbing your breasts, waving their money, eyes already knocking you down, taking what they felt was theirs. (…) It was a play and I knew how it ended, I didn’t want to audition for any of the roles. It was no game, no casual thrill. It was three-bullet Russian roulette.” 
Janet Fitch
White Oleander

disgust
“Try this for deviancy: fabricants are mirrors held up to purebloods' conscience; what purebloods see reflected there sickens them. So they blame you for holding the mirror." I hid my shock by asking when purebloods might blame themselves."
David Mitchell
Cloud Atlas

disgust
“He was so full of disgust, disgust at the world and at himself, that he could not weep.”
Patrick Süskind
Perfume: The Story of a Murderer

sadness
"I guess that’s what saying good-bye is always like — like jumping off an edge. The worst part is making the choice to do it. Once you’re in the air, there’s nothing you can do but let go."
Lauren Oliver
Before I Fall

sadness
"Mother died today. Or maybe yesterday, I don’t know. I had a telegram from the home: ‘Mother passed away. Funeral tomorrow. Yours sincerely.’ That doesn’t mean anything. It may have been yesterday"
Albert Camus
The Stranger

sadness
“Vaughan died yesterday in his last car-crash. During our friendship he had rehearsed his death in many crashes, but this was his only true accident”
J.G. Ballard
Crash

surprise
"She was unfailingly delighted by the surprise of each new day."
Jane Garda
Old Filth

surprise
“Desperation can make a person do surprising things.”
Veronica Roth
Allegiant

surprise
“How ridiculous and how strange to be surprised at anything which happens in life”
Marcus Aurelius
Meditations

love
"“Atticus said to Jem one day, “I’d rather you shot at tin cans in the backyard, but I know you’ll go after birds. Shoot all the blue jays you want, if you can hit ‘em, but remember it’s a sin to kill a mockingbird.” That was the only time I ever heard Atticus say it was a sin to do something, and I asked Miss Maudie about it. “Your father’s right,” she said. “Mockingbirds don’t do one thing except make music for us to enjoy. They don’t eat up people’s gardens, don’t nest in corn cribs, they don’t do one thing but sing their hearts out for us. That’s why it’s a sin to kill a mockingbird.”
Harper Lee
To Kill a Mockingbird

love
“There are darknesses in life and there are lights, and you are one of the lights, the light of all lights.”
Bram Stroker
Dracula

love
“Love is a temporary madness; it erupts like volcanoes and then subsides. And when it subsides, you have to make a decision: You have to work out whether your roots have so entwined together that it is inconceivable that you should ever part. Because this is what love is. Love is not breathlessness, it is not excitement. It is not the promulgation of promises of eternal passion. That is just being ‘in love,’ which any fool can do. Love itself is what is left over when being ‘in love’ has burned away, and this is both an art and a fortunate accident. Those who truly love have roots that grow toward each other underground, and when all the pretty blossoms have fallen from their branches, they find that they are one tree and not two.”
Louis de Bernières
Captain Corelli’s Mandolin

nervous
“A nervous silence loosens tongues”
Jacqueline Carey
Kushiel's Chosen

nervous
“Nervous people tend to overreact.”
Toba Beta
Master of Stupidity

nervous
“I raise my face to his, ready for the crush of his lips against mine, wanting to share more than these nervous breaths.”
Sarah Glenn Marsh
Fear the Drowning Deep

